#Mersenne Twister

PBS infinite series: video

The Mersenne Twister is a pseudorandom number generator (PRNG).


#pseudorandom number generator

A pseudorandom number generator (PRNG), also known as a deterministic random bit generator (DRBG), is an algorithm for 
generating a sequence of numbers whose properties approximate the properties of sequences of random numbers. 

The PRNG-generated sequence is not truly random, because it is completely determined by an initial value,
called the PRNG's seed (which may include truly random values).Although sequences that are closer to truly random 
can be generated using hardware random number generators. pseudorandom number generators are important in practice for their speed 
in number generation and their reproducibility.

In computing, a hardware random number generator (HRNG) or true random number generator (TRNG) is a device that generates 
random numbers from a physical process, rather than by means of an algorithm. Such devices are often based on microscopic 
phenomena that generate low-level, statistically random "noise" signals, such as thermal noise, the photoelectric effect, 
involving a beam splitter, and other quantum phenomena. These stochastic processes are, in theory, completely unpredictable,
and the theory's assertions of unpredictability are subject to experimental test. This is in contrast to the paradigm of 
pseudo-random number generation commonly implemented in computer programs. 

PRNGs are central in applications such as simulations (e.g. for the Monte Carlo method), electronic games
(e.g. for procedural generation), and cryptography. Cryptographic applications require the output not to be predictable from 
earlier outputs, and more elaborate algorithms, which do not inherit the linearity of simpler PRNGs, are needed. 



The most commonly used version of the Mersenne Twister algorithm is based on the Mersenne prime 219937−1.

The standard implementation of that, MT19937, uses a 32-bit word length. There is another implementation
that uses a 64-bit word length, MT19937-64; it generates a different sequence. 




Linear_Congruential_engine---------------->Implements linear congruential
Mersenne_twister_engine------------------->implements Mersenne Twister algorithm
subtract_with_carry_engine---------------->implements subtract with a carry algorithm


